I am Sergei Korolev.
Born in 1907 in Zhytomyr, Ukraine.
I was a lead Soviet rocket engineer and spacecraft
designer during the Space Race between the
United States and the Soviet Union in the
1950s and 1960s.
I am regarded by many as the father of practical
astronautics.
I was involved in the development of the R-7
Rocket, Sputnik 1, launching Laika, Sputnik
3, Belka and Strelka, and the first human
being, Yuri Gagarin, into space.
As a child, I was stubborn, persistent, and
argumentative.
I grew up a lonely child with few friends
and began reading at an early age, and my
abilities in mathematics and other subjects
made me a favorite student of my teachers
but caused jealousy from my peers.
Although I trained as an aircraft designer,
my greatest strengths proved to be in design
integration, organization, and strategic planning.
I was arrested on a false official charge
as a "member of an anti-Soviet counter-revolutionary
organization.
I was imprisoned in 1938 for almost six years,
including a few months in a Kolyma labor camp.
Following my release, I became a recognized
rocket designer and a key figure in the development
of the Soviet Intercontinental ballistic missile
program.
I later directed the Soviet space program
and, overseeing first human Earth orbit mission
by Yuri Gagarin on 1961.
My unexpected death in 1966 interrupted the
implementation of my plans for a Soviet-crewed
Moon landing before the United States’ 1969
mission.
Before my death, I was officially identified
only as the Chief Designer, to protect me
from possible Cold War assassination attempts
by the United States.
Even some of the cosmonauts who worked with
me were unaware of my last name; I only went
by Chief Designer.
Only following my death in 1966, was my identity
revealed and I received the appropriate public
recognition as the driving force behind Soviet
accomplishments in space exploration during
and following the International Geophysical
Year.
Our world is vast and I pushed our observations
a bit closer to its limits.
I hope our sense of exploration is expanding
to this day.